Console Audit logging feature introduction (#9673)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-console-auditing.md

---
title: Console Audit Logging

> Summary: Learn about the log auditing feature for the TiDB Cloud Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn about the log auditing feature for the TiDB Cloud Console.
```

---
title: Web Console Audit Logging

> Summary: Learn about how to audit operations on the TiDB Cloud Web Console.

Author: "console audit logging" is used uniformly

---

# Web Console Audit Logging

> TiDB Cloud provides you with the audit log function for Web Console operations, which can record the history of user access details (such as user login to Web Console, cluster creation, etc.).

Author: updated

> **Note:**
>

> > Currently, the **audit logging** feature is experimental. The interface and output are subject to change.

Author: updated

> To assess the effectiveness of user access policies and other information security measures of your organization, it is a security best practice to conduct a periodic analysis of the DbaaS audit logs.

Author: updated

> ## Specify auditing filter rules

Reviewer: Line 71 says "Closing the DBaaS audit log feature is not supported".

Author: Do not conflict.
1. This refers to analyzing the content of the audit log file, such as the analyzed console status and cluster status information.
2. It is not supported to modify the filter condition configuration of the audit log, but all operations will be included in the audit log

Author: It is not recommended to modify the title. Currently, specifying filtering rules is not supported. This is a temporary state. A complete audit function should support the configuration of filtering rules.

The web console audit logging feature is enabled by default, and all user operations on the Web Console will be recorded in the audit logs.
Audit logs cover the following event types:

| Audit Event Type | Description |
|---|---|

> | AuditEventSignIn | sign in |

Reviewer: This table has many duplicated Audit Event Types with the table in the "Audit log fields" section. Shall we only retain one table?

Author: 1. The meanings of these two tables are different. I have communicated with caiqian before and the conclusion is that both tables are reserved.
2. The first table describes the audit coverage scenarios, and configurable filter conditions may be added later; the second table describes the record fields in each scenario.

| AuditEventSignOut | sign out |
| AuditEventUpdateUserProfile | update user's first name and last name |
| AuditEventUpdateMFA | enable or disable MFA |
| AuditEventCreateProject | create a new project
| AuditEventUpdateProject | update the project name
| AuditEventDeleteProject | delete a project
| AuditEventInviteUserIntoProject | invite a user into project
| AuditEventDeleteProjectUser | delete a project user
| AuditEventUpdateOrg | update organization name and time zone
| AuditEventCreateIntegration | create an integration
| AuditEventDeleteIntegration | delete an integration
| AuditEventListOrgUsers | list users in organization
| AuditEventListProjectUsers | list users in a project
| AuditEventAddNewPaymentMethod | add a new credit card

> | AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod | update credit card info

Reviewer: A `|` is missing at the right end of each line.

Author: updated

---
title: Console Audit Logging
Summary: Learn about the log auditing feature for the TiDB Cloud Console.
---

# Console Audit Logging

TiDB Cloud provides the audit logging feature for Console operations, which records the history of user access details (such as user login to the Console and cluster creations).

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, the **audit logging** feature is experimental. The interface and output are subject to change.

## Limitations

The current console audit log feature is an experimental function, and there are the following limitations:

- Console audit logging is enabled by default, and it is not supported to be disabled.
- The ability for users to specify audit filtering rules is temporarily not supported. 
- The audit log is accessible only with the help of PingCAP support.

## Audit event types

> Audit logs cover the following event types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All user operations on the TiDB Cloud Console are recorded in the audit logs as events. Audit logs cover the following event types:
```

| Audit event type | Extended fields | Data type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| AuditEventSignIn |  |  |  |
| AuditEventSignOut |  |  |  |
| AuditEventUpdateUserProfile |  |  |  |
| AuditEventUpdateMFA | enableMFA | bool |Enable / disable MFA |
| AuditEventCreateProject | projectName | string | Project name |
| AuditEventUpdateProject | oldProjectName <br/> newProjectName | string <br/> string | Old Project name <br/> New project name |
| AuditEventDeleteProject | projectName | string | Project name |
| AuditEventInviteUserIntoProject | email <br/> Role | string <br/> string | Email <br/> Role name |
| AuditEventDeleteProjectUser | email <br/> Role | string <br/> string | Email <br/> Role name |
| AuditEventUpdateOrg | orgName <br/> timeZone | string <br/> uint| Organization name <br/> Time zone |
| AuditEventCreateIntegration | integrationType | string | Integration type |
| AuditEventDeleteIntegration | integrationType | string | Integration type |
| AuditEventListOrgUsers |  |  |  |
| AuditEventListProjectUsers |  |  |  |

> | AuditEventAddNewPaymentMethod | cardNumber | string | Payment card number (desensitized) |
> | AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod | cardNumber | string | Payment card number (desensitized) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AuditEventAddNewPaymentMethod | cardNumber | string | Payment card number (information desensitized) |
| AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod | cardNumber | string | Payment card number (information desensitized) |
```

> | AuditEventDeletePaymentMethod |  |  |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AuditEventDeletePaymentMethod |  |  | Currently not recorded |
```

Author: This is the place to write the field description, it is not appropriate to add such information. And it is not that there is no record, the record information is incomplete.

---
title: Console Audit Logging
Summary: Learn about the log auditing feature for the TiDB Cloud Console.
---

# Console Audit Logging

TiDB Cloud provides the audit logging feature for TiDB Cloud console operations, which records the history of user access details (such as user login to the Console and cluster creation operations).

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, the **audit logging** feature is experimental. The output is subject to change.

## Limitations

> Currently, the console audit logging feature is experimental, with the following limitations:

Reviewer: The experimental information has been stated in line 12.
```suggestion
Currently, the console audit logging feature has the following limitations:
```

- Console audit logging is enabled by default and cannot be disabled by users.
- You cannot specify the audit filtering rules for the feature. 
- You can access the audit log only with the help of PingCAP support.

## Audit event types

> All user operations on the TiDB Cloud Console are recorded in the audit logs as events.
> Audit logs cover the following event types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All user operations on the TiDB Cloud Console are recorded in the audit logs as events. Audit logs cover the following event types:
```

> All user operations on the TiDB Cloud Console are recorded in the audit logs as events.
> Audit logs cover the following event types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All user operations on the TiDB Cloud Console are recorded in the audit logs as events. Audit logs cover the following event types:
```

| Audit event type | Description |
|---|---|
| AuditEventSignIn | Sign in |
| AuditEventSignOut | Sign out |
| AuditEventUpdateUserProfile | Update user's first name and last name |
| AuditEventUpdateMFA | Enable or disable MFA |
| AuditEventCreateProject | Create a new project |
| AuditEventUpdateProject | Update the project name |
| AuditEventDeleteProject | Delete a project |
| AuditEventInviteUserIntoProject | Invite a user into project |
| AuditEventDeleteProjectUser | Delete a project user |
| AuditEventUpdateOrg | Update organization name and time zone |
| AuditEventCreateIntegration | Create an integration |
| AuditEventDeleteIntegration | Delete an integration |
| AuditEventListOrgUsers | List users in organization |
| AuditEventListProjectUsers | List users in a project |
| AuditEventAddNewPaymentMethod | Add a new credit card |

> | AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod | Update credit card info |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod | Update credit card information |
```

| AuditEventDeletePaymentMethod | Delete a credit card |
| AuditEventCreateAWSVpcPeering | Create an AWS VPC Peering |
| AuditEventCreateGCPVpcPeering | Create a GCP VPC Peering | 

> | AuditEventListAWSVpcPeering | List all AWS VPC Peering in the project |
> | AuditEventListGCPVpcPeering | List all GCP VPC Peering in the project |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventListAWSVpcPeering | List all AWS VPC Peerings in a project |
| AuditEventListGCPVpcPeering | List all GCP VPC Peerings in a project |
```

| AuditEventDeleteAWSVpcPeering | Delete an AWS VPC Peering |
| AuditEventDeleteGCPVpcPeering | Delete a GCP VPC Peering |

> | AuditEventGetProjectTrafficFilter | Get traffic filter list of the project |
> | AuditEventUpdateProjectTrafficFilter | Update traffic filter list of the project |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventGetProjectTrafficFilter | Get traffic filter list of a project |
| AuditEventUpdateProjectTrafficFilter | Update traffic filter list of a project |
```

> | AuditEventGetTrafficFilter | Get traffic filter list of the cluster |
> | AuditEventUpdateTrafficFilter | Update traffic filter list of the cluster |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventGetTrafficFilter | Get traffic filter list of a cluster |
| AuditEventUpdateTrafficFilter | Update traffic filter list of a cluster |
```

| AuditEventCreateProjectCIDR | Create a new project CIDR |

> | AuditEventGetProjectCIDR | List CIDR in the region |
> | AuditEventGetProjectRegionCIDR | List all CIDR in the project |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventGetProjectCIDR | List the CIDR of a region |
| AuditEventGetProjectRegionCIDR | List all CIDRs in a project |
```

| AuditEventDeleteBackupInRecycleBin | Delete backups of deleted clusters in recycle bin |

> | AuditEventChangeClusterRootPassword | Reset the root password of cluster |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventChangeClusterRootPassword | Reset the root password of a cluster |
```

| AuditEventCreateImportTask | Create an import task |
| AuditEventCancleImportTask | Cancel an import task |
| AuditEventExitImportTask | Exit an import task |
| AuditEventCreateCluster | Create a cluster |
| AuditEventDeleteCluster | Delete a cluster |
| AuditEventScaleCluster | Scale a cluster |
| AuditEventCreateBackup | Make a backup |
| AuditEventDeleteBackup | Delete a backup |
| AuditEventRestoreBackup | Restore from a backup |

> | AuditEventUpdateAuditLogStatus | Enable / disable database audit logging |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventUpdateAuditLogStatus | Enable or disable database audit logging |
```

| AuditEventCreateAuditLogAccessRecord | Add database audit log filter conditions |
| AuditEventDeleteAuditLogAccessRecord | Delete database audit log filter conditions |
| AuditEventUpdateUserRole | Modify user roles |

## Audit log storage policy

- The audit log information is stored in AWS ES.
- The storage time is 90 days, after which the audit logs will be automatically cleaned up.

## View audit logs

> The Console audit log information is temporarily accessible only to internal personnel of TiDB Cloud. If you need to view audit log information, contact PingCAP support for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The console audit logs are temporarily accessible only to internal personnel of TiDB Cloud. If you need to view the logs, contact [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

## Audit log fields

> The fields in the audit log include basic fields and extended fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The fields in audit logs include basic fields and extended fields.
```

The basic fields are as follows:

| Field name | Data type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| timestamp | timestamp | Time of event |

> | Auditeventtype | string | Event type |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| auditEventType | string | Event type |
```
Does field names need to obey Camel-Case?

| userID | uint64 | User ID |
| clientIP | string | Client IP |
| isSuccess | bool | Event result |

Extended fields supplement the description information of events based on different event types to ensure the integrity and availability of audit information

| Audit event type | Extended fields | Data type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|

> | AuditEventSignIn |  |  |  |

Reviewer: Some of the extended event types are described while some are not. Users might wonder what the undescribed types mean? Could you give a explanation for them?

| AuditEventSignOut |  |  |  |
| AuditEventUpdateUserProfile |  |  |  |

> | AuditEventUpdateMFA | enableMFA | bool |Enable / disable MFA |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventUpdateMFA | enableMFA | bool |Enable or disable MFA |
```

| AuditEventDeletePaymentMethod |  |  | (Currently not getting full field information) |
| AuditEventCreateAWSVpcPeering |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateGCPVpcPeering |  |  |  |
| AuditEventListAWSVpcPeering |  |  |  |
| AuditEventListGCPVpcPeering |  |  |  |
| AuditEventDeleteAWSVpcPeering |  |  |  |
| AuditEventDeleteGCPVpcPeering |  |  |  |
| AuditEventGetProjectTrafficFilter |  |  |  |
| AuditEventUpdateProjectTrafficFilter |  |  |  |
| AuditEventGetTrafficFilter |  |  |  |
| AuditEventUpdateTrafficFilter |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateProjectCIDR |  |  |  |
| AuditEventGetProjectCIDR |  |  |  |
| AuditEventGetProjectRegionCIDR |  |  |  |
| AuditEventDeleteBackupInRecycleBin |  |  |  |
| AuditEventChangeClusterRootPassword |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateImportTask |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCancleImportTask |  |  |  |
| AuditEventExitImportTask |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateCluster | clusterName | string | Cluster name |
| AuditEventDeleteCluster | clusterName | string | Cluster name |
| AuditEventScaleCluster |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateBackup | backupName | string | Backup name |
| AuditEventDeleteBackup |  |  |  |
| AuditEventRestoreBackup | clusterName | string | Cluster name |

> | AuditEventUpdateAuditLogStatus | enableAuditLog | bool | Enable / disable SQL auditing |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AuditEventUpdateAuditLogStatus | enableAuditLog | bool | Enable or disable database auditing |
```

---
title: Console Audit Logging

> Summary: Learn about how to audit operations on the TiDB Cloud Console.

Author: updated

---

# Console Audit Logging

> TiDB Cloud provides you with the audit log feature for Console operations, which can record the history of user access details (such as user login to the Console and cluster creations).

Author: updated

> **Note:**
>

> > - Currently, the **audit logging** feature is experimental. The interface and output are subject to change.

Author: The current stage does not provide UI capabilities, and the next stage of iteration will provide users with the ability to directly access audit logs

> > - Console audit logging is enabled by default and the log is not accessible to users without the help of PingCAP support.

Author: updated

> To assess whether user access policies and other information security measures of your organization are effective or not, it is a security best practice to periodically analyze the console audit logs.

Author: There is no problem with the strategy of the audit, which is implemented in stages.
1. At the current stage, users seeking PingCAP support can view audit information.
2. The next stage will enable users to directly access audit log information.
3. If it has to be said that the user cannot view the audit log independently, then the current document may not be provided at all, because the user cannot configure it, and the user cannot view it independently.

## Specify auditing filter rules

The console audit logging feature is enabled by default, and all user operations on the Console will be recorded in the audit logs.
Audit logs cover the following event types:

> | Audit Event Type | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Audit event type | Corresponding Console operations |
```

|---|---|
| AuditEventSignIn | sign in |
| AuditEventSignOut | sign out |
| AuditEventUpdateUserProfile | update user's first name and last name |
| AuditEventUpdateMFA | enable or disable MFA |
| AuditEventCreateProject | create a new project |
| AuditEventUpdateProject | update the project name |
| AuditEventDeleteProject | delete a project |
| AuditEventInviteUserIntoProject | invite a user into project |
| AuditEventDeleteProjectUser | delete a project user |
| AuditEventUpdateOrg | update organization name and time zone |
| AuditEventCreateIntegration | create an integration |
| AuditEventDeleteIntegration | delete an integration |
| AuditEventListOrgUsers | list users in organization |
| AuditEventListProjectUsers | list users in a project |
| AuditEventAddNewPaymentMethod | add a new credit card |
| AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod | update credit card info |
| AuditEventDeletePaymentMethod | delete a credit card |
| AuditEventCreateAWSVpcPeering | create an aws vpc peering |
| AuditEventCreateGCPVpcPeering | create a gcp vpc peering | 

> | AuditEventListAWSVpcPeering | list all aws vpc peering in the project |

Reviewer: These words should be capitalized:

- aws -> AWS
- gcp -> GCP
- vpc peering -> VPC Peering
- The first letter of the first word: Delete, List, Add, Update, Create, Get, etc.

| AuditEventUpdateTrafficFilter | update traffic filter list of the cluster |
| AuditEventCreateProjectCIDR | create a new project CIDR |
| AuditEventGetProjectCIDR | list CIDR in the region |
| AuditEventGetProjectRegionCIDR | list all CIDR in the project |
| AuditEventDeleteBackupInRecycleBin | delete backups of deleted clusters in recycle bin |
| AuditEventChangeClusterRootPassword | reset the root password of cluster |
| AuditEventCreateImportTask | create an import task |
| AuditEventCancleImportTask | cancel an import task |
| AuditEventExitImportTask | exit an import task |
| AuditEventCreateCluster | create a cluster |
| AuditEventDeleteCluster | delete a cluster |
| AuditEventScaleCluster | scale a cluster |
| AuditEventCreateBackup | make a backup |
| AuditEventDeleteBackup | delete a backup |
| AuditEventRestoreBackup | restore from a backup |
| AuditEventUpdateAuditLogStatus | enable / disable audit logging |
| AuditEventCreateAuditLogAccessRecord | add audit log filter conditions |
| AuditEventDeleteAuditLogAccessRecord | delete audit log filter conditions |
| AuditEventUpdateUserRole | modify user roles |

> **Note:**
>

> > - Closing the Console audit log feature is not supported;
> > - Setting filter rules is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Closing the Console audit log feature is not supported.
> - Setting filter rules is not supported.
```

## Audit log storage policy

> - Audit log information is currently only supported to be stored in AWS ES;

Reviewer: If users cannot access the log independently, they cannot do anything about it, including deciding where the logs can be stored.
```suggestion

- The audit log information is stored in AWS ES.
```

> - The storage time is 90 days, after which it will be automatically cleaned up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The storage time is 90 days, after which the audit logs will be automatically cleaned up.
```

## View audit logs

> The Console audit log information is temporarily accessible only to internal personnel of TiDB Cloud. Customers who need to view audit log information can seek TiDB Cloud support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Console audit log information is temporarily accessible only to internal personnel of TiDB Cloud. If you need to view audit log information, contact PingCAP support for it.
```

## Audit log fields

> The fields in the audit log include: basic fields and extended fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fields in the audit log include basic fields and extended fields.
```

Author: updated

> The basic fields are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The basic fields are as follows:
```

Author: updated

| Field name | Data type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| timestamp | timestamp | Time of event |
| Auditeventtype | string | Event type |
| userID | uint64 | User ID |
| clientIP | string | Client IP |
| isSuccess | bool | Event result |

> Extended field: supplements audit information based on different event types, helping audit administrators to analyze user activities more accurately.

Reviewer: Who is the audit administrator? Users or PingCAP personnel?
```suggestion
Extended fields supplement the audit information based on different event types, which helps audit administrators analyze user activities more accurately.
```

Author: updated

> | Audit Event Type | Extended Fields | Data type | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Audit event type | Extended fields | Data type | Description |
```

Author: updated

| AuditEventDeleteBackupInRecycleBin |  |  |  |
| AuditEventChangeClusterRootPassword |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateImportTask |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCancleImportTask |  |  |  |
| AuditEventExitImportTask |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateCluster | clusterName | string | Cluster name |
| AuditEventDeleteCluster | clusterName | string | Cluster name |
| AuditEventScaleCluster |  |  |  |
| AuditEventCreateBackup | backupName | string | Backup name |
| AuditEventDeleteBackup |  |  |  |
| AuditEventRestoreBackup | clusterName | string | Cluster name |
| AuditEventUpdateAuditLogStatus | enableAuditLog | bool | Enable / disable SQL auditing |
| AuditEventCreateAuditLogAccessRecord |  |  |  |
| AuditEventDeleteAuditLogAccessRecord |  |  |  |
| AuditEventUpdateUserRole | oldRole <br/> newRole | string <br/> string | Old role name <br/> New role name |

> **Note:**
>
> The supplementary description of the field information is as follows:
> - AuditEventAddNewPaymentMethod: The field cardNumber (payment card number) has been desensitized.
> - AuditEventUpdatePaymentMethod: The field cardNumber (payment card number) has been desensitized, and the UserID is not recorded in audit log temporarily.

> > - AuditEventDeletePaymentMethod: UserID is not recorded in audit log temporarily.

Reviewer: I think appending this information to the corresponding rows of the above table might look better.

Author: The description in the table is ultimately a complete function introduction, and should not contain special instructions. It is more reasonable to prompt information for special situations.
